# getting-started-python

Some suggested resources for learning Python

Also see the [Interactive notebook version of this document](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Mjboothaus/getting-started-python/blob/main/GettingStartedPythonAnalytics.ipynb) - opens by default in the free-tier of [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/). Or see the file `GettingStartedPythonAnalytics.ipynb` above.


# Some resources for getting started with Python and analytics

## `TL;DR`

*Choose one of the options below and have a go!*

**Note: This [notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Mjboothaus/getting-started-python/blob/main/GettingStartedPythonAnalytics.ipynb) provides some code to demonstrate pulling data from the web and doing introductory exploration.**

## Introduction

This short document provides a few recommendations for getting started
with the Python language and data analytics. I learnt Python when I was
45 (although I have also programmed in Basic, Fortran, C/C++/C#, VBA,
Matlab, R). I think Python is a very accessible language and it has a
very large package ecosystem to expand on its base functionality
(standard libraries).

There is **no unique path** to follow - we all learn differently -
although I think it is true that most of us learn best by doing i.e.
experimenting with code and solving small problems as we go along. Few
of us \"get the textbook\" and work systematically through it!

Unless otherwise indicated, these resources are available for free (or
the courses can be taken for free in \"audit\" mode).

There are many other quality free and paid resources available online,
however, these are very good starting places.

**Happy problem solving and coding - Enjoy!**

### Author

```
    Dr. Michael J. Booth
    Founder, DataBooth
    michael@databooth.com.au
```


## Git a Repository

If you\'re going to write some code, setup a free-tier `git` based
respository to track your work. e.g. [GitHub.com](https://github.com),
[GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com) or
[BitBucket.org](https://bitbucket.org).

## Options

So, in no particular order\...

## Google Colaboratory (hosted Jupyter notebooks)

That\'s the platform that this document (notebook) is built with/hosted
on. [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org) notebooks are a great/interactive way
to learn. Google has plenty of resources to help you learn about using
their complimentary, computational notebooks (their version of Jupyter
notebooks).

See their excellent introductory overview notebook
[here](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb).

## Replit.com (Game-ified approach)

Replit provides a free, on-demand, collaborative, in-browser IDE to code
in over 50 languages including Python. Consquently it does not require
any explicit setup to get going which makes it a great platform for
newbies with a gamified look and feel :)

Create an account here [Replit.com](https://replit.com) and choose a
Python project to get going.

There are some Python specfic tutorials embedded within the learning
materials on the platform.

## IBM courses on Coursera

[Python for Data Science, AI &
Development](https://www.coursera.org/learn/python-for-applied-data-science-ai)
this course can be done as part of a number of specialities - the
following two courses look most relevant:

-   [Data Science Fundamentals with Python and SQL
    Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-science-fundamentals-python-sql)
-   [Data Engineering Foundations
    Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-engineering-foundations)

If I\'m being completely frank, it seems to me that *Data Engineering*
skills are likely to be in greater demand that *Data Science* skills
moving forward (as tools are attempting to commoditise much of the lower
value data \"science\" work) - although there can be significant overlap
between the two areas.

## Jose Portilla Udemy Courses - Two (low cost) paid options

-   [2022 Complete Python Bootcamp From Zero to Hero in
    Python](https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-python-bootcamp/)
-   [Python for Data Science and Machine Learning
    Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/python-for-data-science-and-machine-learning-bootcamp/)

I learnt Python from the first of these two courses. Typically you can
purchase them on Udemy at significant discount for around AUD \$20.

## Tinkerstellar and Juno (options for iOS devices)

If you own an iPad there are a couple of interesting learning resources.
From my testing [Tinkerstellar](https://tinkerstellar.com) and companion
app [Juno](https://juno.sh) feel very solid and are elegant - glossy
magazine style notebooks.

Tinkerstellar is an app that helps you learn coding and data science
with interactive tutorials (or labs), where you can edit and run code
examples straight away --- no need to configure environments, download
datasets or rely on networking connection to execute code. Just download
a lab, and you're ready to play around and experiment with code solving
real-world problems of computational science ðŸš€.

## Articles

### [Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/about)

-   [9 Free Quality Resources to Learn and Expand Your Python Skills -
    Learn Python regardless of your technical
    background](https://towardsdatascience.com/9-free-quality-resources-to-learn-and-expand-your-python-skills-44e0fe920cf4)

### [Medium](https://medium.com)

-   TODO: Add more references.

*p.s. any suggestions, improvements, errors or typos please email me.*
